Another one that's very cool.
And again, another curb cut effect because
I think it's very cool from a design
standpoint too is prefers color scheme.
So a lot of operating systems these
days including Apple allow you to
set your color scheme.
And so I think if I go to Preferences
whereas it's maybe like Appearance,
and then I can select light mode,
I can select dark mode, things like that.
So at an operating system level,
I've chosen dark mode.
Well, now we have this ability
to read into that setting and
change things accordingly,
which is really cool.
I do this on my personal site,
and we do this on Twitter, and
we did it on some Adobe sites as well.
So again, think about your HTML and
you've got your main wrapper
class inside the body tags.
So you give it a class of wrapper and then
you do these prefers colour schemes again.
So you do okay media query if
they prefer dark then we set
wrappers background to be black,
the whole page is black.
I guess I should probably add colour,
you know, white or something for contrast.
Otherwise, if they prefer
the color scheme light,
we set the wrapper background
to be white instead.
And so now you can have this site that's
like very dynamic, where as soon as
they load the page, whatever your
operating system level is set to,
you can go ahead and
just set your page to that.
This one's really interesting too though,
because if you think about it, it's very
trendy these days for websites to include
their own manual dark mode toggle, right?
So if you go to a blog and it has, for
an example I have one on my site, right?
So I have this little like day night
thing, and you click it and it goes dark,
and then you click it again,
it goes light.
So now we're like, okay,
we have this toggle, right?
And we have the prefers color
scheme from the system design.
And then we also probably to make a really
good experience, if I set this to light
and I refresh the page, I don't want it to
be dark because they already chose light.
So it's probably locally cached too.
So you kind of end up in a little
bit of a complicated space, right?
Where you're like, okay, maybe the first
thing you that you do is you check
the user's cache to see if you've
manually saved their preference for
your site, they prefer light.
And if that's not there,
then maybe as a second thought,
you check their preferences and you see
if they prefer a lighter dark seem and
that's added to that.
And if that's not there,
then maybe you have a total default
based on the toggle or whatever.
So it's a little bit interesting.
I think that like the reduced
motion is very simple.
They prefer reduce motion.
So don't do animations.
The light mode, dark mode can get
tricky if you offer light mode
dark mode as a clickable experience
in your existing web app.
You can get a little bit tricky there, but
I think, I still think it's really great.
Any questions about that for
moving to the exercise?
Yeah, that's a great question.
So yeah, it's like are there also
JavaScript API's for these things?
And the example is like if you have
some JavaScript animated thing, and
you know that they prefer reduce motion,
can you do it?
So I think I also like, can you do
it without media queries, right?
If you're not in CSS, but
in JavaScript, is that fair?
Okay, yeah, so there is an API for,
trying remember the name of it.
There's an API where you can
get media query information.
And the name of it is, yes.
So you can do it this way.
Let me link this in the,
I'm not logged into the chat, but.
So you can do window dot match media and
then you can pass in any type of
query selector that CSS takes and
it'll return true or false for you.
So this would be same with like Mac
screen size, anything like that.
But yeah, so you could do if window
match media prefers colour scheme.
So it won't be true or false.
For this one, it'll be lighter dark for
this one based on what you've set.
So then you could do something like if
window match media prefers color scheme
equals light.
Do this.
Otherwise do that.
It's a great question.
All right, last exercise.
So I'll take 10 to do this and
then I will be on the automation tooling,
all sorts of other cool stuff but
no more exercises.
So for this exercise, read the user's
dark light mode preference and
set the background to like a dark color or
light color.
And then if you want,
if you're a JavaScript person for
extra credit, [LAUGH] you can also enable
the checkbox to override that setting.
So, I think the first thing what we should
be able to see is here, as I pick light,
this page should go white and
as I pick dark, this page should go black.
And if you wanted to get fancy way that
you could also allow the checkbox to
override those settings.